In this video I'll explain Fiber Channel over Ethan storage Fiber Channel over Internet is one of the
possible storage array options that we can choose from with VSE for sex Fiber Channel everything is
very similar to Fiber Channel.
The only thing that really changes is the network our ESX hosts can boot from a Fiber Channel over ethernet
storage array and we can create device mappings on it.
Now we're going to create VM FS five data stores on fiber channel over Ethan at a rate.
This is a file system that's created by the ESX host.
So let's talk about the pieces that make up the Fiber Channel over ethernet Sam and for the moment we're
just going to focus on the storage array components and the network.
So let's remove everything else from our picture here.
The fiber channel switch fabric is not used with fiber channel over Ethernet.
So instead we're going to use ethernet switches and now we have this storage array where we have our
FCL switches that provide connectivity.
We have two storage processors shown storage processor one in storage processor or two.
And the purpose of storage processor one and two is to number one provide connectivity to the network.
Number two they provide the CPE resources for the storage array and then within the storage array self
we have an aggregate of disks.
Maybe its one shelf or two who knows how many shelves of disks that might be.
But when you add all that space up together that's what we call our aggregate and the storage administrator
can break up the aggregate into smaller chunks of space called LUNs that's where we'll create our data
stores the converged network adapter is a hardware interface that is specifically used for Fiber Channel
over Ethan storage.
It has the ability to carry our storage traffic as well as standard network traffic over the same interface.
So let's walk through this process.
Now here we see a virtual machine a Windows VM on the left with a virtual scuzzy controller.
And so as the guest operating system generates scuzzy commands they flow out of the virtual machine
through the virtual scuzzy controller.
And where do these scuzzy commands go.
Once they flow out of the virtual machine
while they hit a storage adapter.
In this case our storage adapter is the Fiber Channel over ethernet CNA or converged network adapter
and the job of the storage adapter is to prepare those scuzzy commands that the virtual machine is sending
so that they can traverse the network as a storage traffic leaves this host.
It will be assigned a VPN ID and that way the storage traffic can be distinguished from the network
traffic as it leaves the host.
So if we look at our virtual machine again notice it's got a virtual scuzzy controller and it's got
a virtual Nic the virtual Nic as for its network traffic so as that network traffic flows out of the
virtual machine it'll hit a virtual switch.
And eventually if it needs to get to some sort of external destination it will hit a VM.
Nick on the virtual switch and in this case that's the same physical interface on the converged network
adapter that we're using for storage traffic and the network traffic is on one VPN and the storage traffic
is on another.
So that when it hits the switch it can be pushed towards the appropriate network whether it's the storage
network or our regular data network traffic.
So here in purple we see a virtual machine with a virtual SCSI controller.
And as Windows or whatever our guest operating system happens to be as the guest OS generates scuzzy
commands they flow out of the VM through the virtual scuzzy controller and hit our storage adapter.
In this case the storage adapter is a software fiber channel over ethernet adapter and this acts as
an entry point into the ether net network the software fiber channel over either the adapter is bound
to a VM kernel port.
So as these scuzzy commands are prepared for transmission across the network by the storage adapter
they hit that VM kernel port and that gets him into a virtual switch where they can reach the physical
network through a VM Nic.
So in this case we have two software constructs that we've created.
Right we have a software Fiber Channel over Ethan and adapter and a VM kernel port on a virtual switch.
And by using these software objects to complete the storage roles we're going to introduce some overhead
and the C.P of the ESX host.
Now one other important consideration we have to bear in mind when we're designing a storage network
is redundancy.
So we have to make sure that we don't have any single points of failure.
So to address the single point of failure that a VM kernel port can introduce We can create another
VM kernel port on another virtual switch and we can bind our software Fiber Channel over ethernet adapter
to both VM kernel ports and have it use round robin load balancing to distribute that storage traffic
evenly.
So now even if one of our V.M. next fails or one of our fiber channel over Ethan that switch fails or
one of our storage processor fails we still have a valid path between the ESX host and the storage array.
So in summary in this lesson we learned about software Fiber Channel over either net.
We learned that it uses an Ethernet switch for communication.
We learned that the ESX hosts can boot from sand with fiber channel over the net and that raw device
mappings are also supported.
We learned about a converged network adapter and how it's a specific type of storage adapter for Fiber
Channel over Ethernet that is used to transmit both storage and network traffic over the same hardware
device.
And we also learned about software Fiber Channel over Ethan and adapters that will use a VM kernel port
to get storage traffic out to the physical network.